To develop your intuition about the business case for data science,
we're going to sharpen our focus to that first word; business.
Data Science initiatives typically target one of two general business goals,
to increase revenues or to decrease costs.
Our objective as a data science leader is to assess
various areas of the business to get our best idea about where data science might fit in.
This is going to require deep contextual knowledge of the business's operations.
Exactly the sort of knowledge that
a functional business leader will have acquired during her time in an organization.
I will ask you to consider different parts of the organization,
breaking down areas of examination using a framework that might align to
either the value chain of the business or the business's income statement,
known colloquially as the P&L or profit and loss statement.
We will take different sub-components of either the value chain or
P&L and assess whether there is an opportunity for data science within each component.
We will then prioritize these opportunities based on the complexity of each project,
the likely benefit that each project might bring,
and any risks or uncertainty in delivering on each project.
All of these things require intuition about
the business that is embedded in business contextual knowledge.